DATE: 2020-12-20

Over the last couple days I have been thinking to myself what is my vision? I have been playing with the principal that anything that impedes information flow is evil. This principal contradicts the pervading ideology of the west, liberalism. One of Liberalism's foundations is the sanctity of human life, humans are free to pursue their own happiness. Liberalism assumes we are all individuals deserving of privacy. Thing is humans are not really individuals they are dividuals. Society's do not take the sum of collective individual wills they manufacture consent. Most people, including myself, are shells containing the opinions of our peers,friends, coworkers, family, intellectuals, mentors and so on. We spend most our lives just remixing the ideas of other people. People do have original thoughts but they very rarely spread. Sometimes these memes spread but when they do they become part of the meme pool the rest of society is spending their live living in.

I desire to man in the middle the human experience with computers. Systems and algorithms will understand us better than we understand ourselves. I envision a world where the smartphone and the human mind seem to be the same thing.

Memes are like parasites that live within the collective mind of humanity. I like to think of human culture as the sum of all memes. Right now we as society lack the correct tools to track memes. One has yet to invent the tools to effectively study human culture. Biology was opened up with the invention of the microscope and astronomy was opened up by the invention of the telescope, memetics requires is own tooling. A system that manned in the middled the human experiences of as many people as reasonable that identified, indexed, and tracked the flow of memes would function as a memetic microscope, a microscope for human culture, the sum of all memes.

Today social media and recommendation engines provide us reflections of who we are. They see what we like and provide us more of it. They group us together with people we like, admire, and want to talk to. These recommendation algorithms are basically prototype memetic microscopes. Right now all these recommendation algorithms black boxes within walled gardens. The social media platforms of today are walled gardens. They are not interoperable, they all have separate login systems, they do not consolidate your data, and they sell you as the product. In the walled gardens are these recommendation algorithms of which entire companies navigate in order to exist. Gaming the google, facebook, or youtube, algorithm's lots of money behind it, in fact there are entire companies that exist to navigate said algorithms. I want to destroy the walls of the walled gardens and open the black box.

The Daemon is my vision as a tool for the war to bring down the walls of the walled gardens and open the black box recommendation algorithms and apply them to life in general. When I say The Daemon I am not making a metaphor I am being literal. Daemon's are background process on computers that listen to receive stuff like emails and print jobs. The Dentropy Daemon is a program that runs in the background on all ones devices indexing one's existence to a data structure. This data structure of a digital reflection of what makes up that person. The Dentropy Daemon is more than just a digital reflection but a parasite that not only lives off the person but helps them thrive. The recommendation engine of one's dentropy daemon would form a symbiotic relationship with the person it is attached to. The recommendation engine of the dentropy daemon is not a black box... it is a feedback algorithm with an open market place. One can download daemon apps that coach them when they wake up in the morning. Apps that display the index of information. Apps that provide reminders of how one is acting order to change one's behavior. Don't like an app delete it. Ones Daemon can do semantic analysis across everything one has ever typed. Need a reminder what what that guy who lives across the street is interested, ask your daemon with natural language. App missing a feature, add it yourself. The sum off all data generated be you is sitting for you to play with.
