---
id: yd286i4cqu2x7z13vpvwxsc
title: HU Homework Day 005
desc: ''
updated: 1663918277206
created: 1663914600791
---

## Write 100 Fascinations that you can use for the sales page listed below

Use as many Deep Work Sessions as needed to reach the target of 100 initial Fascinations

* Here is the Sales Page for reference - 
  * [Google Drive - This scientifically-balanced focus pill is the closest thing to inspiration in a bottle | Neurohacker Collective.pdf](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1q8Y1PKpvrA985L3KE5RosykNn6_gv7Uu/view)
  * [Source Article - This scientifically-balanced focus pill is the closest thing to inspiration in a bottle | Neurohacker Collective](https://neurohacker.com/qualia-mind-essentials-inspiration-in-a-bottle#annotations:FhSCTjOIEe2L98OxhDu4QQ)
  * [Annotated Article - This scientifically-balanced focus pill is the closest thing to inspiration in a bottle | Neurohacker Collective](https://hyp.is/FhSCTjOIEe2L98OxhDu4QQ/neurohacker.com/qualia-mind-essentials-inspiration-in-a-bottle)


1. Become mentally strong by taking this *secret* pill
2. Nootropics the key to becoming the top 1% at whatever you do
3. Not all performance enhancing drugs are banned substances, learn about how nootropics can change your life
4. Do you get the mid afternoon energy low, learn how nootropics, Coffee 2.0, can help with that
5. Coffee is 100's of years old, nootropics are coffee 2.0
6. The quickest way to get into focus, nootropics
7. The secret to flow is not just diet and working out, learn more about nootropics
8. Hack the regime of attention with nootropics
9. These people say nootropics were the key for them achieving self actualization
10. With focus and this secret drugs you can learn how to reprogram yourself
11. Fortune 100 CEO's are 500% more effective in flow and Qualia is guarenteed to boost flow
12. In today's age focus is the key to happienes and qualia can help you get there
13. Have you already hacked your diet, learn how nootropics can take you to the next level
14. Lean about the secret LEGAL drugs billionares take to enhance their performance
15. Nootropics and physical performance, a deep dive into the new health craze
16. Working hard and working smart, how nootropics allow you to do both
17. Learn about these secret new *foods* that allow you to hack your brain
18. Context switching tiring you out, learn how nootropics can help
19. Are you tired of not being your best self, learn about how nootropics can help
20. Do nootropics reprogram the microbiome, a deep dive
21. Get a leg up on your rival by taking nootropics
22. Caffeine 2.0 has been in the market for over 20 years and nobody knows about it
23. Caffeine is actually one of many cognitive enhancing substances, learn about the field of nootropics
24. Nootropics Deep Dive, Qualia, First Person, and Alpha Brain
25. Scam or miracle drugs, are nootrpics startups worth all the hype
26. Drugs are what made us human, learn about the new field of nootropics
27. Psychonaut's are consciousness explorer's, learn how nootropics can help you explore your subconscious
28. The average person can't pass the turing test, learn how qualia can help us be more human
29. Nootropics and sex, sharing my personal experience
30. Are you losing your mental edge in your 40's learn how nootropics can help you get it back
31. Senor citizens are getting a new view on life after taking nootropics
32. The performance enhancing drugs of the ancients are making a come back, learn more about these special nootropics
33. When is the optimal time to take nootropics? A deep dive with personal stories
34. Diet and nootropics, 
35. Coffee dependence is not good, learn about nootropics and how they can be cycled
36. Optimal coffee / nootropics cycling practices
37. Do you take nootropics every day? Learn about what cycling can do for you
38. Do you have an adderall dependence, learn how nootropics can help get you off
39. Optimal performance using nootropics also requires you get some sunshine
40. Taking nootropics and going to church, my personal experience
41. Are red bull athletes not allowed to talk about nootropics? A deep dive
42. How nootropics helped me get over my porn addiction
43. Under the boot of capitalism nootropics can give you that edge to get ahead and actually enjoy your suffering
44. Nootropics marketing, how political leaning and personality traits can predict who is going to buy
45. Boost the amount of flow in your life with this one trick
46. Learn about flow, the secret to happiness, and how nootropics can help
47. Nootropics and meditation, my personal experience
48. How are these even legal!? Learn about new off the shell cognitive enhancing drugs
49. The sneaky drug IT workers are using to get ahead
50. Nootropics, the trick to surviving in silicon valley 
51. Learn how you can sell Nootropics and make 20% margin per sale TODAY
52. Nootropics the perfect gift for HIM or HER
53. Nootropics on aliexpress, are they safe?
54. Do nootropics research suffer from the replicability problems plaguing academia
55. Can nootropics help deal with depression?
56. Afraid you are not living up to your greatest potential? Learn how nootropics can help
57. What it takes to get into the nootropics marketing game. A deep dive
58. Do you love yourself? Learn how nootropics are helping people deal with depression
59. Are your grades suffering in university? Learn how nootropics can help
60. Stop taking caffeine pills, learn about how natural nootropics can help you stay productive
61. Falling asleep in class learn how nootropics can help
62. Civilization is collapsing around us. Use nootropics to do mental gymnastics around the decay
63. Are nootropics part of the solution for how to fix a degenerative society?
64. Do nootropics actually help people? A meta study review
65. Nootropic placebo's, learn what brads are effected
66. How caffeine PLUS nootropics are the key to getting your performance to the next level
67. Are you a member of the church of productivity? Then you need to know about nootropics
68. Which nootropics are a scam, a deep dive
69. Different diets and nootropics, a deep dive
70. Learn how different foods effect cognitive performance
71. Which species of mushrooms are in our nootropics?
72. All drugs come from nature and nootropics are no different
73. Reset your brain with these SECRET pills
74. The secret to nootropics marketing, fascinations
75. Do nootropics allow me to lift more? My personal story with nootropics
76. Coffee vs Nootropics which is better and when
77. Are nootropics heading into our pre workouts?
78. THe quickest way to boost your focus
79. Focus is the new currency learn how to boost it with these X tricks
80. Reclaim your attention within the attention economy with these X tricks
81. The single trick that can help you get more done during the day
82. X% of people in silicon valley take nootropics, which brands do they prefer
83. Brain drugs are becoming popular but which ones are worth the hype
84. Nootropic marketing, finding the bullshit
85. Smart Drugs, fad or the future
86. Oxytocin, is the love drug in your nootropic
87. Brain pills, nootropics, what they are and where you can get them
88. You are what you eat, nootropics and cognitive enhancement
89. They key connection between IQ and nutrition
90. Are smart drugs going to become required to actually compete
91. Should university students be encouraged to take these smart drugs?
92. Nootropics in Chocolate, a new product category
93. Nootropics and your period
94. Nootropics and Psychedelics, the connection that is not always to clear
95. Investing the overlap between nootropics and psychedelic online communities
96. Mushrooms for breakfast, learn how nootropics are enhancing the human experience
97. Nootropics are not Psychedelics so stop conflating them
98. Microdocing with other nootropics, my personal experience
99. Are you getting distracted at work/school learn how these LEGAL smart drugs can help
100. Are you caffeine dependent, learn how these other smart drugs can help

## Example Fascinations from the real world

* Do Nootropics Actually Work? I Took a Bunch of Magic Brain Pills to Find Out
* Get ahead in Silicon Valley: take nootropic brain drugs

## After you have written 100 , you'll then review your work, filter out the bad Fascinations and improve the rest.

#TODO