Daemon is a complicated term with a couple meanings. Its roots are mythical with deamon refering to a supernatural being working in the background. The field of computation stole this concept labeling background programs daemons. An example of a computer deamon is an email server. In order to recieve email or recieve print jobs there must always be a email or printer server daemon running.

Now with rise of big data, survalence capitalisim, and the Snowden NSA leaks we now live in a world where it may be possible to combine these two definitions of daemon. What is every piece of digital information about us was gathered and plugged into a system that provided an algorithmic self reflection of who we are as a person. Every web search, post, message sent, message resieved, browsing history, photos taken, location history, and more would all be accessable to this system. This system would not only have access to your information but anybody who is not a privacy purist is plugged into said system. This system would be a background process for the hivemind of humanity itself.

A system like this exists, we know is from the Snowden NSA Leaks. Access to the information generated by billions at people in the hands of a special elite few that the public does not achnowledge exists. I like to ask people what would they do with access to the NSA toolbox. Some say it must be destroyed like the ring in Lord of The Rings, many others have no idea. This blog is an experiment to discover what I would do with the Eye of Sauron.
 
Let's just think about this for a second. If a system like this actually existed what would be possible? Covid 19 would have been solved a long time ago. Pedophilia and child porn would be radically different problems.

Let's be frank guys, Big Tech, telecoms, the NSA, and Friends let Covid-19 continoue to spread. For telecoms and Big Tech to track every person with a phone in all the western world is a matter of flicking the right switch. The first question we would need to answer is if this data is already available and just need to be properaly organized. The easiest way to gather the location of basically everyone would be to go to Apple and Google and make them give you the infoamtion they already have. Google already explicity tracks everyone and if apple does not log everyone already would just need to start logging now. Between Google and Apple one would be able to track basically every phone in the western world. Now it is just a matter of correlating this information with Covid-19 cases.

Now the question is is this information is good enough to track the spread of Covid-19. Our location is tracked many ways. The telecoms can triangulate ones locatios, GPS is built into every phone, one can look at the SSID (wifi names) around one self and generate a unique ID for their location  to be compared with ones, bluetooth, IP address, and MAC address. Oh and for those that don't know all those find my phone apps listen for other phones as long as your bluetooth is on.

Wow there you might say what about my right to privacy? Well privacy is a concept from the 19th centary that doesn't work well in the digital age. If the average person actually cared about privacy they would be running linux on their desktop, these days it's not hard. If you are not running linux on your desktop just assume the daemon has direct access to your PC.

Here are some scary thoughts to think about

There is an unimaginable amount of child porn sitting on facebook, snapchat, and other online services. Most of it is likely not from pedofiles and other people that belong bars but children themselves. Sexting was pretty mainstream before Covid-19 but now that everyone is locked away from one another Sexting is likely more poplar than ever.
